profilediff/xmldiff
-------------------

This tool attempts to diff two XML structures based on element paths and attributes. Some attributes
are chosen to be so-called discriminator attributes, like an id or a key. They make up the id of an entity.
For system profiles, those are typically 'id', and the triple keys of measures with id, metric group id
and metric id. Those attributes are configurable in settings.properties.
Furthermore, to hide uninteresting changes, the differ takes a list of arguments that are to be ignored.
For system profiles, those are typically 'rev', 'createdtimestamp' and measure colors.
Once those attribute changes are out of the way, structure changes become clearer.

The diffing (and merging) work flow takes a so-called 'baseline' XML document and compares it with a
document that has changes, trying to merge those changes back to the baseline.
Deletions are marked with (-) and presented in green, are only present in the baseline document and have
disappeared in the modification document.
Insertions are marked with (+) and presented in blue, are only present in the modification document; they
represent new entities.
Attribute changes are marked with (#) and presented in black, represent attribute changes between two 
structurally equal elements. Those are counted per element, no matter how many attributes really changed.
    
Merge dialog
------------

When deciding to merge, the user can check all elements that should be found in the resulting merged
document. For insertions, this will add those insertions to the baseline document (in the best location
found). For deletions, elements that are NOT checked will be removed from the baseline document, 
otherwise retained. Please note that the accept/reject semantic is reversed to insertions, to achieve the 
logic of having checked elements in the merged document.
For attribute changes, those elements that are checked will have their attributes completely replaced with
the new values of the modification document.

The merge dialog shows the progress of the merge and prints each change again. Checked insertions and 
attribute changes as well as unchecked deletions will be shown as "Accepted (A)", otherwise "Rejected (R)".

One-way vs. two-way view
------------------------

In the one-way view, all change types are collected in one tree, with a link to the originating xml source
positions on the right.
In the two-way view, the left side shows the baseline document while the right side shows the modification
document. Naturally, deletions are shown left and insertions are shown right.
Attribute changes are shown in both sides, but can only be checked on the right side.
It's possible to view attribute details at the bottom of either view.

The default checked state of the three changes types are configurable in settings.properties.